docs/source/installation.rst, before:

.. _installation:

Installation
##################


Dependencies and requirements
==============================

The *log_calls* package has no dependencies — it requires no other packages.
All it requires is a standard distribution of Python 3.3 or higher (Python 3.4+
recommended).

Installing `log_calls`
==========================

You have two simple options:

1. Run:

       ``$ pip install log_calls``

   to install `log_calls` from PyPI (the Python Package Index), or

2. download the compressed distribution file (a ``.tar.gz`` or a ``.zip``),
uncompress it into a directory, and run:

       ``$ python setup.py install``

   in that directory.

Here and elsewhere, ``$`` at the *beginning* of a line indicates your command prompt,
whatever it may be.

Whichever you choose, ideally you'll do it in a virtual environment (a *virtualenv*).
In Python 3.3+, it's easy to set up a virtual environment using the
`pyvenv <https://docs.python.org/3/using/scripts.html?highlight=pyvenv#pyvenv-creating-virtual-environments>`_
tool included in the standard distribution.

Running the tests
=================
Each ``*.py`` file in the ``log_calls/`` directory has at least one corresponding test
file ``test_*.py`` in the ``log_calls/tests/`` directory. The tests provide 96+% coverage.
All tests have passed on every tested platform + Python version (3.3.x through 3.6.0);
however, that's a sparse matrix :) If you encounter any turbulence, do let us know.

You can run the tests for `log_calls` after downloading it but before installing it,
by running the following command in the directory into which you uncompressed the download:

    ``$ ./run_tests.py [-q | -v | -h]``

which takes switches ``-q`` for "quiet" (the default), ``-v`` for "verbose",
and ``-h`` for "help".

What to expect
--------------
Both of the above commands run all tests in the ``tests/`` subdirectory. If you run
either of them, the output you see should end like so::

    Ran 112 tests in 2.235s
    OK

indicating that all went well. (**Depending upon which Python version you're using and on
what packages you have installed, you may see fewer tests reported.**) If any test fails, it will tell you.

.. note:: This package *probably* requires the CPython implementation, as it uses internals
 of stack frames which may well differ in other interpreters. It's not guaranteed to
 fail without CPython, it's just untested. (*If you're able and willing
 to run the tests under another interpreter or compiler, please tell us what you find*.)

 We would like `log_calls` to work with PyPy3, once that supports at least
 Python 3.3, and provided it supports the ``inspect`` module. Presently (Spring 2016,
 just after the release of Python 3.6.0 alpha) the PyPy3 project has still only reached
 Python 3.2.5, with no information available as to their next milestone.

Commit message:

0.3.2 -- readme footer fixup; installation doc fixups, readme & main docs

docs/source/installation.rst, after:

.. _installation:

Installation
##################


Dependencies and requirements
==============================

The *log_calls* package has no dependencies — it requires no other packages.
All it requires is a standard distribution of Python 3.3 or higher (Python 3.4+
recommended).

Installing `log_calls`
==========================

You have two simple options:

1. Run:

       ``$ pip install log_calls``

   to install `log_calls` from PyPI (the Python Package Index), or

    *Here and elsewhere,* ``$`` *at the* beginning *of a line indicates your command prompt,
    whatever it may be.*

2. download the compressed distribution file (a ``.tar.gz`` or a ``.zip``),
   uncompress it into a directory, and run:

       ``$ python setup.py install``

   in that directory.

The complete distribution of `log_calls` (available as a  ``tar.gz`` or a ``zip``
from PyPI or github) contains three subdirectories: ``log_calls``, the package
proper; ``docs``, the documentation source files; and ``tests``, mentioned above.
These last two subdirectories are *not* installed by pip, so to obtain those
files you'll have to download an archive, and then, you may as well install
`log_calls` using method 2.

Whichever you choose, ideally you'll do it in a virtual environment (a *virtualenv*).
In Python 3.3+, it's easy to set up a virtual environment using the
`pyvenv <https://docs.python.org/3/using/scripts.html?highlight=pyvenv#pyvenv-creating-virtual-environments>`_
tool included in the standard distribution.

Running the tests
=================
Each ``*.py`` file in the ``log_calls/`` directory has at least one corresponding test
file ``test_*.py`` in the ``log_calls/tests/`` directory. The tests provide 96+% coverage.
All tests have passed on every tested platform + Python version (3.3.x through 3.6.0);
however, that's a sparse matrix :) If you encounter any turbulence, do let us know.

You can run the tests for `log_calls` after downloading it but before installing it,
by running the following command in the directory into which you uncompressed the download:

    ``$ ./run_tests.py [-q | -v | -h]``

which takes switches ``-q`` for "quiet" (the default), ``-v`` for "verbose",
and ``-h`` for "help".

What to expect
--------------
Both of the above commands run all tests in the ``tests/`` subdirectory. If you run
either of them, the output you see should end like so::

    Ran 112 tests in 2.235s
    OK

indicating that all went well. (**Depending upon which Python version you're using and on
what packages you have installed, you may see fewer tests reported.**) If any test fails, it will tell you.

.. note:: This package *probably* requires the CPython implementation, as it uses internals
 of stack frames which may well differ in other interpreters. It's not guaranteed to
 fail without CPython, it's just untested. (*If you're able and willing
 to run the tests under another interpreter or compiler, please tell us what you find*.)

 **PyPy is not (yet?) compatible with `log_calls`.**
 Finally PyPy3 supports Python 3.3: as of Winter 2017, the PyPy3 project has
 reached Python 3.3.5 with their version PyPy3.3, with 3.5 support in development
 (PyPy3.5, by name). So finally we can test its compatibility with `log_calls`: 8 of 110 tests fail.
 Some of the failures appear to be because PyPy3.3 has incorrect values for
 ``__qualname__``s of inner classes, and we'd expect these tests to pass in PyPy3.5.
 Others may be more fundamental — watch this space for at least a fuller assessment,
 if not a change in compatibility status.
